So here the first thing I'm going to do is fill in
the clustering function from the point Cloud process.
So process point clouds.CPP.
Here I'm going to use that documentation that basically fill in the function.
So just like what the documentation was doing,
I'm going to create this PCL search
KdTree and it's going to use just this template pointT.
Now I'm going to actually feed in the cloud.
This was the argument into the clustering function
into this KdTree which is called tree here.
Then I'm going to go ahead and create
the cluster indices just like the documentation was doing in this EC object.
For setting the cluster tolerance,
I'm going to actually use
this cluster tolerance that was defined in the argument header up here.
So I had clustered tolerance,
I had min size and I had max size,
all that is going to be fed into the hyper-parameters for this EC object,
and I'm also going to tell it to use that tree.
Then I'm going to set it with the cloud and then I'm going to
generate my cluster indices by calling the extract method.
Now I'm all set to actually go through
those cluster indices and create
some point clouds in each point cloud's going to be a different cluster.
So in order to do this,
I have this for loop here,
and then I'm going to iterate through cluster indices and
the type for each of those is as PCL point indices.
So it's just a vector of these PCL point indices,
and then I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to create a new cloud cluster.
So here, I'm using that PCL point cloud pointT pointer.
So I'm using this type name here like we were talking about in that first lesson,
we want to tell the compiler that this is a type when using this template,
and I'm just using this new PCL point cloud pointT to create that point cloud.
Now I can actually iterate through the indices from get indices.indices,
and I can take each of those in I can push it back into
this obstacle cluster that I just created or this cloud cluster.
So I'm just going to go ahead and grab its member points,
and then do a push back on it,
and it's actually just going to be an index from cloud.
So I'm going to grab its points member,
and then for that index that's actually going to go into my obstacle cloud.
Then I'm just going to go ahead and set up the width and height for this obstacle cloud,
and I'm going to push it back into my clusters,
so that my clusters is my vector of point clouds,
and then add everything I need to go ahead and just return clusters.
So then I can go back to environment.CPP and I can call
that cluster function and then I
have everything I need to start rendering things to that PCL Viewer.
So let's check that out,
let's go ahead and call our point processor clustering function,
and here's what I'm going to be using as input.
So this was that segment cloud.
So in the previous lesson I went ahead and
segmented that cloud and there's two parts to it.
There's the first part which is obstacles and there is
that second part which is the road points.
I'm going to grab that first part.
So I'm going to do segment cloud.first that first member.
Then here's some hyper parameters I'm going to be using.
So here this totally depends on the data that you're
using but I'm going to be using 1.0 for the distance tolerance,
so these points have to be within that one distance unit,
and I'm going to say,
hey has to have at least three points to be considered a cluster,
and then we're not dealing with very large clusters here,
so let's just say like 30 is our max number points to define a cluster.
Then I'm going to do exactly what the classroom was
saying and I'm going to iterate through my vector of point clouds,
and so I'm going to grab that point cloud,
and I'll just call it cluster here,
and so it's a PCL point cloud,
and it's a PCL point XYZ for the type,
and that's called clustering.
That's from that cloud clusters that I got from calling the clustering function,
and then I'm going to go ahead and reduce render point cloud.
We'll do that one a little bit later and so I'm going to call render point cloud,
and I'm just going go ahead and feed it back cluster point cloud,
give it that unique name and then give it a color,
and that color is from that color list.
I'm going to use this cluster ID to iterate through that
in-control a unique name and then also index to the different colors.
Actually right here I'm using red,
I'm doing one one here so I'm going to do yellow,
and then I'm going to do B,
so a blue value right here.
So let's go ahead and save that,
and see what that looks like.
So let's go ahead and make sure it's saved for both of those,
and then come back down here to our terminator.
Let's go ahead and compile that.
We're going to compile our executable for environment,
and see if we can look at those different clusters.
So let's see what's going on right here.
So in 63 we got an error, cannot convert,
so it's looking like an S actually got included here.
I don't know that might have just happened right now when I was trying to do a save.
Let's go ahead and recompile,
and then N time was not declared.
So let's go ahead and look at that that might have just been,
probably this S got over here too, okay.
Let's see if S is cause any more havoc, no, okay.
Compiling the process point clouds.CPP right now,
okay, linking the executable and we're good.
Let's see what this looks like all right, cool,
and right now we're leaving on the plane cloud rendering that we're doing before.
We could turn that off but right here we can see the different clusters.
So here is this red group so that's one cluster that's one car.
We also have another cluster over here in blue,
that's another one of the cars,
and then we have this yellow section over here,
and it looks like we're even picking up this kind of fourth section right here.
So if we play around
that distance tolerance then we can get that group together but it's looking like it's
seeing just a slight side of the car
right here and it was saying that that's a separate cluster as well.
So those are all things that you can play around with in your hyper-parameters.
Also if I want to look at this without the green plane, I could turn that off.
So going back and environment.CPP,
I was doing some different things here,
and you could also just like turn that off if you want to
go and just render the clusters by themselves.